---
title: "The Present and Future of Privacy-Preserving Computation in Fog Computing"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2017-05-31-fog-computing
excerpt: ''
date: 2017-05-31
venue: 'Fog Computing in the Internet of Things'
paperurl: 'https://prvsousa.github.io/files/Chapter_Privacy.pdf'
citation: 'Sousa, Patrícia R., Luís Antunes, and Rolando Martins. "The present and future of privacy-preserving computation in fog computing." Fog Computing in the Internet of Things (2018): 51-69.'
---

[Download paper here](https://prvsousa.github.io/files/Chapter_Privacy.pdf)

Abstract:

Edge computing is becoming a prevalent alternative to the classical cloud paradigm. Instead of relying on a centralized infrastructure, hyper local clouds which are used in fog computing and edge clouds focus on performing computation and storing data locally. This increase of locality allows an enhancement of privacy and interactivity with end users. In particular, this allows computation to be performed near the users and thus shielding them from directed tracking. However, current computational frameworks are not suitable to implement privacy-preserving computation on the edge. Multi-party computation (MPC) poses itself as a suitable option to offer the basic building block for building decentralized privacy-preserving computational frameworks. In MPC, each party has to share their own data (inputs) with the other parties over a public function while ensuring that no private information is leaked. One of the recent approaches in this field is Enigma’s computation model based on an optimized version of secure multi-party computation which removes the need for a trusted third party. This model works in parallel with blockchain technology that controls the network, manages access control, identities, and serves as a tamper proof log of events. In this work, we follow this path of privacy based on blockchain with secure multi-party computation. We start describing the related work, then the current state of the art in terms of security and privacy and finally new directions in the field with special focus in security and privacy.

Recommended citation: Sousa, Patrícia R., Luís Antunes, and Rolando Martins. "The present and future of privacy-preserving computation in fog computing." Fog Computing in the Internet of Things (2018): 51-69.